OSDOCS-9915 machine pool grace periods during upgrades (#73909)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-node-drain-grace-period.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_cluster_admin/rosa_nodes/rosa-managing-worker-nodes.adoc
//this module applies to ROSA HCP only

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-node-drain-grace-period_{context}"]
= Configuring node drain grace periods in {hcp-title} clusters

> You can configure the node drain grace period for machine pools in your cluster. The node drain grace period for a machine pool is how long the cluster respects the Pod Disruption Budget protected workloads when upgrading or replacing the machine pool. After this grace period, all remaining workloads are forcibly evicted. The value range for the node drain grace period is from 0 to 1 week. With the default value 0, or empty value, the machine pool drains without any time limitation until complete.

Reviewer: If these numbers refer to values you'd set in a file or a CLI, I think they should be in literals:
```suggestion
You can configure the node drain grace period for machine pools in your cluster. The node drain grace period for a machine pool is how long the cluster respects the Pod Disruption Budget protected workloads when upgrading or replacing the machine pool. After this grace period, all remaining workloads are forcibly evicted. The value range for the node drain grace period is from `0` to `1 week`. With the default value `0`, or empty value, the machine pool drains without any time limitation until complete.
```

Ignore this if those are not referring to those kinds of values

.Prerequisites

* You installed and configured the latest {product-title} (ROSA) CLI, `rosa`, on your workstation.
* You created a {hcp-title-first} cluster.
* You have an existing machine pool.

.Procedure

> . List all of the machine pools in the cluster:

Reviewer: Per our [docs guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#procedure-step-that-introduces-a-command), steps that introduce a command need some language that explicitly mention a command needs to be run:
```suggestion
. List all of the machine pools in the cluster by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list machinepools --cluster=<cluster_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID          AUTOSCALING  REPLICAS  INSTANCE TYPE [...] AVAILABILITY ZONES  SUBNET  VERSION  AUTOREPAIR  TUNING CONFIGS
workers      No           2         m5.xlarge    [...] us-east-1a          N/A     4.14.18  Yes
db-nodes-mp  No           2         m5.xlarge    [...] us-east-1a          No      4.14.18  Yes
----

> . Check the node drain grace period for a machine pool:

Reviewer: Same comment as above:
```suggestion
. Check the node drain grace period for a machine pool by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe machinepool --cluster <cluster_name> <machinepool_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID:                                    workers
Cluster ID:                            2a90jdl0i4p9r9k9956v5ocv40se1kqs       
Node drain grace period:               <1>
----
+
<1> If this value is empty, the machine pool drains without any time limitation until complete.

> . Optional: Update the node drain grace period for a machine pool:

Reviewer: Same comment as above:
```suggestion
. Optional: Update the node drain grace period for a machine pool by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --node-drain-grace-period="<node_drain_grace_period_value>" --cluster=<cluster_name>  <machinepool_name>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Changing the node drain grace period during a machine pool upgrade applies to future upgrades, not in progress upgrades.
====

.Verification

> . Check the node drain grace period for a machine pool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the node drain grace period for a machine pool by running the following command:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_cluster_admin/rosa_nodes/rosa-managing-worker-nodes.adoc
//this module applies to ROSA HCP only

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-node-drain-grace-period_{context}"]
= Configuring node drain grace periods in {hcp-title} clusters

> You can configure the node drain grace period for machine pools in your cluster. The node drain grace period for a machine pool is how long the cluster respects the Pod Disruption Budget protected workloads when upgrading or replacing the machine pool. After this grace period, all remaining workloads will be forcibly evicted. The value range for the node drain grace period is from 0 to 1 week. With the default value 0, or empty value, the machine pool drains without any time limitation until complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the node drain grace period for machine pools in your cluster. The node drain grace period for a machine pool is how long the cluster respects the Pod Disruption Budget protected workloads when upgrading or replacing the machine pool. After this grace period, all remaining workloads are forcibly evicted. The value range for the node drain grace period is from 0 to 1 week. With the default value 0, or empty value, the machine pool drains without any time limitation until complete.
```

Reviewer 2: IBMSG recommendation to write in the present tense unless future is necessary: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-verbs#tense

.Prerequisites

* You installed and configured the latest {product-title} (ROSA) CLI, `rosa`, on your workstation.

> * You logged in to your Red Hat account by using the ROSA CLI.

Reviewer 2: IBMSG suggests not to include logging in as part of a prerequisite step; https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-procedures#prerequisite-information. In this case, i think the installation and configuration of ROSA CLI should be a sufficient indicator that you need to be properly logged in to use ROSA.

. List all of the machine pools in the cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list machinepools --cluster=<cluster_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID          AUTOSCALING  REPLICAS  INSTANCE TYPE [...] AVAILABILITY ZONES  SUBNET  VERSION  AUTOREPAIR  TUNING CONFIGS
workers      No           2         m5.xlarge    [...] us-east-1a          N/A     4.14.18  Yes
db-nodes-mp  No           2         m5.xlarge    [...] us-east-1a          No      4.14.18  Yes
----

. Check the node drain grace period for a machine pool:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe machinepool --cluster <cluster_name> <machinepool_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID:                                    workers
Cluster ID:                            2a90jdl0i4p9r9k9956v5ocv40se1kqs       
Node drain grace period:               <1>
----
+
<1> If this value is empty, the machine pool drains without any time limitation until complete.

. Optional: Update the node drain grace period for a machine pool:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --node-drain-grace-period="<node_drain_grace_period_value>" --cluster=<cluster_name>  <machinepool_name>
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> You cannot change the node drain grace period after a machine pool upgrade has started.

Reviewer 3: Not sure how to word this to mean that it's possible to change the node drain grace period while an upgrade is in progress, but it won't be used in the current upgrade, but will be effective for future upgrades.

Author: Fixed

> Changing the node drain grace period during a machine pool upgrade applies to future upgrades not in progress upgrades.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changing the node drain grace period during a machine pool upgrade applies to future upgrades, not in progress upgrades.
```

Reviewer 2: I think a comma is needed here before this nonrestrictive clause.
